---
hidden: true
layout: project
thumbnail:
title: Ceramics
timeframe: Ongoing
description: Playing with mud for fun and profit.
tags: ceramics art
---

UC Santa Cruz was founded as a collection of small colleges, each with a unique focus, and also a unique co-op! By the time I started attending in 2004, most of the co-ops had closed, and new colleges didn't start their own. Three remained: the Porter darkroom, the Kresge Food Co-op (which I helped run for several years), and the Merrill Pottery Co-op, which I immediately joined as a member. I didn't have any ceramics experience, but by the end of the year could make chunky but passable bowls. 

After I left the university I didn't have a chance to play with clay for several years, until I took a class with Sam Clarkson, at Cabrillo. Afterwards I re-joined the pottery co-op as a manager, which turned into a crash course in everything from mixing toxic powders into glazes to running a gas kiln to 2500 degrees farenheit, hopefully without death or permanent disfigurement. I taught workshops on things like pulling handles and making custom stamps, and herded a lot of cats doing volunteer management to keep the space functioning smoothly.

I love making art out of mud, and using a wheel requires a meditative stillness that's good for more than making bowls. There's also something special about opening a cupboard at a friend's house and seeing a mug I made, knowing that it's in their hands on a regular basis. I like organic and functional shapes, and regularly donate my work for silent auctions in support of a couple non-profits. If you see something special, hit me up! I always have more pottery than I can use.

